If you want your book to be a smashing
success, but you are overwhelmed by the
thought of marketing it, you clicked on
the right video. I'm going to share with
you right now the techniques and
strategies that I have used to catapult
my book to the top of retailer sales
charts, to create more book sales, to
create pre-order floods, and to just get
the word out about my book. as an indie
author who has no marketing team behind
me helping me with this. I like to call
this the subtle art of self-promotion
because it really is a subtle art and
it's something that doesn't have to be
overwhelming and you don't have to be a
marketer to learn how to do it. So,
let's get into it. Welcome if you're new
here. I'm Abby and I help writers make
their stories matter and make their
author dreams come true. And if that's
something you're on a mission to do,
you're going to want to subscribe to
this channel. I post videos every
Wednesday and I would love to have you
here in the community. Before we get
into like the nitty-gritty of actually
generating book sales and getting people
to talk about your book and buy your
book and read your book, we first have
to find your readers, right? We have to
figure out who they are and where they
hang out. And this was like a
breakthrough moment for me when I
realized this at the start of my book
marketing journey. You don't need
everyone to talk about your book. You
just need the right people in the right
circles to talk about your book. When I
first started learning about book
marketing, I felt like an explorer
setting off across a vast uncharted sea
of confusion. I was overwhelmed because
I mistakenly believed that in order for
my book to be popular, in order for
people to buy it and know about it, I
had to like dominate all these spaces
online. But you don't need to do that.
You don't need to be the hot topic of
the internet or book talk or bookstagram
in order to generate book sales. You
just need to be a hot topic or talked
about in the right circles like the pie
slice of book talk or bookstagram where
your readers are hanging out. So when it
comes to finding where your readers are
hanging out, it's important to remember
three things. Community, connection, and
conversation. Community is basically
anywhere that you have like a virtual
book club. Like you have a bunch of
people who are interested in the same
books and always talking about them
together. Connection might be that they
have connection to their favorite
authors and they feel they can reach out
to them and talk to them and follow them
and see their behind-the-scenes updates.
And conversation is the most important
thing. You want to put your time into
focusing on platforms that create
conversation because creating book sales
is all about creating conversation. So,
here are a few places where your readers
might be hanging out. Instagram, also
known as Bookstagram, book blogs, Tik
Tok or book talk, YouTube or book. The
more conversation, the better. That's my
rule of thumb whenever I'm going to
market my book somewhere. I want people
to be talking about it. I want to start
conversations. I don't want it to just
be like an ad that goes by in your feed.
Nobody looks at ads. They don't create
conversation. They don't create
community and connection. That's what
you want to do. And my advice here is to
pick a platform that works for you and
100% focus your attention on that
platform. If somebody told you along the
line that you need to be present and
dominating every single social media
platform, I want you to throw that lie
right out the window right now because
let me tell you, if you try to build a
platform on every single social media
site, you won't have a life and you
certainly won't have time to write. So
focus all your attention on what you
think is the most important one for you
to build your reader base around. I have
social media accounts on Tik Tok and
Instagram and Facebook and YouTube and I
have a blog, but I wouldn't call all of
them my platform necessarily or where my
readers are hanging out. I have decided
to focus 100% of my attention on YouTube
and some of my attention on Instagram
because I can split that a little bit,
but I mostly focus on YouTube because
that's the platform that speaks the most
to me. That's the platform where I have
found you guys. You're my community. You
are hanging out here and that's why I
show up here for you. You want to focus
your attention on platforms where your
readers are active and ready to engage
with your content. Now, like I just
said, you do not want to be thinking
like a marketer. You don't want to be
thinking, "I'm showing up here to market
my book." Your goal is not to sell. Your
goal is to create conversation. What
creates conversation is not catchy
marketing. It is infectious enthusiasm.
Think about it for a minute. What's the
last time you went on Bookstagram or
Book Talk and you got influenced by
another reader to try a new book? Just
imagine that scenario for a minute.
You're doom scrolling on your phone and
you stop because you see a post from
somebody that you like and trust. some
reader that you follow and they are
gushing about this book that they just
read and they love it so much and
they're just in enthusiastic about it.
They're enthusiasm is so infectious that
you're like, "Ooh, I want to read that
book." Were they marketing to you or
were they just so excited that their
excitement rubbed off on you? Once I
made this mindset shift, it changed
everything for me. It totally
revolutionized the way I looked at
advertising because advertising is
really just spreading enthusiasm for a
thing that you want people to be
enthusiastic about.
That's it. And who's more enthusiastic
about your book than you? I mean, you're
the one who spent the most time with it.
You loved it so much that you spent
probably years of your life
brainstorming, writing, rewriting,
editing, now publishing it. Who is more
qualified to be enthusiastic about it
than you? And let me tell you right now,
this lands so much better with readers
than like paid advertising because this
is something that is organic and
straight from the heart and it's not
feeding those money hungry ad machines
like Facebook and Amazon and Google and
it's translating to conversation which
is translating to book sales. And if
you're an avid reader, you might already
have a presence in these spaces. You
might already be known in these spaces.
You might even be posting about books
already yourself. But even if you're
not, it's okay. You don't have to become
a Bookstagrammer in order to have a
presence on Bookstagram or book talk.
Let's be real. You have enough on your
plate right now trying to make your book
a success. But I encourage you to
network a little bit. And don't cringe
when I say the word network. I know it's
kind of has a lot of marketing corporate
connotations,
but think of it like you're just making
friends. You're just making your
presence known in this space of reading
culture online. Readers, authors, and
influencers will love you once they get
to know the real you. So, just put your
authentic self out there. Communicate
with these people. Show support.
Introduce yourself in a friendly DM or
follow them and comment on some of their
posts. Make your presence known. Let
them know you exist. That's step one.
Now, before we continue here, I just
want to say there are some dos and
don'ts to building an author brand.
There are some things that you
definitely want to avoid doing and will
seem like red flags if you do them. So,
real quick, here's what they are. Don't
do follow forfollow comments or spam
others with your book links. This is
going to come off as scammy and tacky
and just like you're not very personal
and you're not being your authentic
self. Don't constantly pitch your books
like a product. Don't waste time trying
to get the attention of big influencers
who you know are not accessible to you.
Don't network just for the sake of
sending people to buy your book. On the
flip side, do show genuine interest and
support for others and their work.
That's really important. Do
enthusiastically share about your book
in creative fun ways. Do forge
meaningful relationships with smaller
authors and influencers.
do bring up your book in casual organic
conversation. Okay, so now that you have
found where your readers hang out and
you're starting to make friends with
them and network with them, it's time to
nurture them with content that will
bring them value and make them want to
learn more about your books and come
into your world. However, in today's
world of constant stimulation on social
media, it is really hard to stop
scrollers in their tracks and make them
care about your post. Why should they in
this sea of over stimulation on the
internet? That's why it's so so
important to stay true to yourself
instead of following trends that are
constantly changing or trying to make
your content more flashy to catch
someone's attention. However, there are
some really good standby post ideas that
I would recommend doing that I have done
myself that have worked really well for
me and that I would recommend to any
author out there. If you need like a
quick start guide to get you started on
this first annotation posts, I will grab
my book and annotate some of my favorite
scenes as if it was somebody else's book
that I was highlighting and really
enjoying this part. aesthetic reels for
the book, the characters, the vibe of
the story, trope graphics, so like the
book in the center with like all the
different tropes kind of pointing at it
and talking about some of the
ingredients that are included in the
book. Portraits of you holding or
reading your book or reals of you
holding and reading your book with maybe
some of your favorite lines coming up on
the screen. You can make these kind of
funny as well. I've done some that are
like me reacting to my audio book and
comparing one scene to another scene,
maybe something really sweet and
romantic to something that's kind of
violent. Reaction videos of you reading
your own book. And yes, this is again
falling into the category of kind of
funny, kind of silly, but it catches
people's attention because you're
reading your own book and like reacting
to it and swooning over it as if it's
somebody else's book. Because let's face
it, you do care about these characters
that much, right? I mean, I know I do. I
know I can't be the only one who
actually swoons over my own writing.
Or flipping the script on common tropes.
So, maybe there is something a little
bit unique about your book that is
similar to a trope that people love, but
it's different. I did this with um love
triangles. So, I made a real that was
about how my book contains a love
triangle, but it's very different than
your average love triangle. And these
are all ways that I've been able to
subtly talk about my books and create
conversation without feeling like I'm
trying to hard sell somebody. And my
number one piece of advice for all of
this, because none of it will work if
you don't have this one thing is
enthusiasm. If I could literally only
give you one piece of book marketing
advice or just marketing advice in
general, honestly, it would be to be
your number one biggest fan. Get hyped
about your own stuff in the same way
that you would get hyped about somebody
else's stuff. Like I said before,
enthusiasm is infectious. People will
catch it when they see you excited and
enthusiastic. They will feel excited and
enthusiastic to lean in and learn more
and read your book. So, what would you
say about this book? If you were not the
author, you were just a reader and you
stumbled upon it and you're like, "Oh my
gosh, this is my new favorite book. Five
stars. I love this book. I want to share
it with everybody I know." What would
you say? What would you post on social
media? Those are the posts that you
should be making right now. Yesterday,
you said tomorrow. So, just do it. Make
your dreams come true. Before we wrap
this up, I just want to debunk three
myths real quick that many authors
believe that are just not true. Myth
number one, you need to post every
single day. Not true. In fact, recent
algorithm changes have shown that it's
more effective to post every other day.
The most important thing is that you are
nurturing your reader base. You are
nurturing your community and you're
constantly creating conversation with
them. You're communicating with them.
You're there for them. Also remember
that as your platform grows, your
interaction style and frequency will
change. So when I first started
blogging, before I even started doing
YouTube, I ran a blog for years and I
would spend hours a day networking, like
going to other people's blogs, reading
them, commenting on them, making
friends, and making connections in the
blogosphere.
And that's something that I did and it
served me well for years. But then I
started to do YouTube and I started to
network in a different way. Now I can
focus most of my time and energy on just
creating content. So if you're spending
a lot of time networking, commenting,
sending messages, following people, and
you're like, "Oh man, this is not going
to be sustainable. I don't know how I'm
going to continue to do this forever."
Don't worry, you will not have to do it
forever. It's just for a season of life.
It's just for this moment where you are
building your platform from scratch.
Myth number two, you don't need to
market your book until you're ready to
publish it. I don't know why people
think this. This is so ridiculous. I
have people ask me all the time, Abby,
when should I start marketing my book?
Like after it's, you know, ready to be
published. After my editor gives it to
me, after I've formatted it, after it's
for sale. No.
No. This is another common misconception
that a lot of authors have that you need
to have your book finished and edited
and published even before you can start
talking about it. While it's nice to
warm up your audience and send warm
traffic to your book sales page, you
first need to find those people, right?
You need them to know that you exist and
that you're an author and that you have
this book coming out that they're going
to be interested in. That's why I
personally like to start teasing my
books as soon as I possibly can. If I
have finished the draft and I've I'm
ready to send to my editor, pretty much
I'm like in that stage, I will start to
drop hints on social media and start to
tease a little bit about what this book
is about and what I've been working on
and give people a little bit of a taste
of what is coming next. Let me show you
what I mean real quick. This is like
what I'm talking about here. This
example post that I posted when I um
announced my new book, The Otherworld,
that I had finished that and this was
several years ago. And all I did in this
post was I just kind of told people a
little bit about like teasing a few
things about the book and when it was
coming out, but not any specific dates.
And this post got like tons of
engagement. 11,000 likes, tons of views
and conversation and interaction. I
can't even remember how many comments
are on this, but there are hundreds and
hundreds of comments, and so many people
were like super excited about the book.
So easy. Took me like 5 minutes to put
this together, and it was so effective.
So, it doesn't need to be complicated,
guys. Stop making it complicated. Okay,
one more myth I need to debunk. Myth
number three is that you can only post
about your own books. You might think
that because you're here to talk about
your books and to sell more books, then
you just need to only talk about your
books. But this isn't necessarily true.
If that's all you want to talk about and
you feel confident that you can create
enough content around just talking about
your books and your writing and
everything that you're creating, cool.
But if you want to talk about other
people's books and talk about your
journey as a reader as well as a writer,
that can be an amazing way to build a
vibrant conversational platform. Or it
could simply be something that brings
educational value or entertainment
value. So strike a balance between
self-promo and other content. Remember
to engage with your followers and invite
conversation about topics other than
just your own books and your own
writing. Asking your followers about
their reading preferences can be a
fantastic way to start those
conversations and also learn more about
your community as a result. But bottom
line, do your own research. This is all
about figuring out what clicks
personally with you and what stops you
in your tracks. So if you're watching
this, you're probably a writer and
you're probably also a reader and you're
probably also on social media and seeing
content from other readers. So, what is
it that stops you when you're on book
talk or Bookstagram or book and you're
scrolling through content? What is it
that makes you stop? Next time you stop,
next time you're scrolling and something
snags your attention, you notice, "Oh,
that caught my attention." I want you to
save that post and I want you to put all
of those posts in one place. I don't
care if it's just a Google doc with all
these links in it or if you save them on
Instagram or whatever. Make sure you
save them and then go back and study
them. Figure out, okay, what was it
about that that made me stop? Is there a
way for me to formulate that that post
and make my own version of it with my
own unique content? All the tips and
techniques in this video are things that
I have expounded upon in depth in more
detail in my live training, Launch Your
Book with a Bang. How to create hype and
attract lifelong readers. This training,
guys, is like everything you could ever
need for learning about how to find your
readers, how to launch your book, how to
create pre-order floods with pre-order
incentives, and to create just like this
massive title wave of hype behind your
book launch. So, if you're getting ready
to launch a book, or even if you're in
the editing stages and you're not sure
when you're going to launch your book
yet, but you know that you want it to be
a success, I highly recommend checking
out this training. You can watch the
replay on demand right now with the link
below this video. So go ahead, click
that link and get instant access to the
replay. But everything I shared in this
video is really all you need to
understand the subtle art of
self-promotion. It doesn't have to be
loud and annoying and scammy and salesy.
Nobody likes that. You don't like that.
I don't like that. Nobody likes that.
It's boring. It's blah me. It's meh. You
don't want to be meh. You want to be you
want to stand out. You want your book to
stand out and you want it to create
conversation. So that's bottom line.
Create conversation. Speaking of
conversation, I want to hear from you
now. So comment below this video and
tell me what stage of the publishing
process are you in. Are you editing or
maybe querying agents or are you taking
the indie publishing route? I would love
to hear about your unique author
journey. So, comment below, join the
discussion, and while you're down there,
smash that like button and subscribe to
this channel if you haven't already
because I post writing videos every
Wednesday, and I would love to have you
here in the community. And if you want
more tips on building an iconic author
brand, I highly recommend checking out
this video where I go into the three
core like pillars of building an author
brand and just building a presence
online that is unique and feels
authentic to you. Good companion to this
video. So, check that one out next. I
will see you over there. Until next
time, my friend. Rock on.